So let's go to ref.js here.
Again, we did talk a little bit about this
one in the complete Intro to React v7.
We used it for our modal.
And I'm gonna kinda get into the details
here a little bit with of like, when and
why you would use this.
So it says useRef Example here.
So I have this number here,
which I have a ref and
I have a set state number here,
right, so a state,
one of them is using state and one of
them is using this useRef here, okay?
If I click delay logging,
you can say increments and delay logging,
so what this does is it increments
both numbers it's gonna increment
the state number here by using set state.
State number plus one, right?
And then this ref thing is a container for
state as well, right?
So it's going to increment that as well.
You can see here by the plus plus.
Then it's gonna set a timeout,
and it's going to alert you to
what the current state of
numRef.current and stateNumber is here.
So if I click delay logging,
what would you expect it to alert you to?
I would expect personally if not coming
into this blind to say I would expect it
to alert one on one right because
it's incrementing both things.
However, it doesn't,
it does 0 and it does 1.
Let's talk about why.
So, this numRef.current, this current
is going to be the same
across all renders.
So if I click this a bunch of times
you'll see a huge difference, right?
This will be six and
then this will be one.
And then as I click OK, it's going to
be you can see ref is not changing, but
the state is incrementing over time.
That's because across all renders, I'm
getting the same number every single time.
And that's the point of a ref is like,
no matter what I want this to
always be the most current thing,
as opposed to state number here, this is
gonna get captured in the closure, right?
So you can see here I'm not actually
incrementing the state number directly.
I'm calling set state which is
being given back to me by the hook.
And therefore, when I call this
increment and delay logging,
it's capturing the state number here.
In that current state, by a closure.
Now splitting hairs here, for the most
part, you really don't need to care, but
where this comes into play is like if I
need to have the most current thing across
all renders no matter
what all of the time.
Or I need to have the same thing that
would be another thing that reason to
do that.
The reason why we did this in
complete intro to react V seven is
we wanted to have the same div, right?
So we actually created a DOM
div programmatically, and
then we inserted that into the DOM.
And then later when we cleaned it up,
we wanted to get the exact
correct div later for
us to clean up later, which was
a perfect use case for this useRef.
Okay, and
then here you can see as we increment it,
later when we go back to reference
numRef.current, because this is getting
incremented directly on the object that
allows us to get the most current number.
So again, you can see that here
it's hilarious, you have state six.
You can see here the state is rendering
10 because the state has been updated,
but this delay logging was captured
when we clicked the Button, right?
Which is why we did the delay there.
So it's a little mind bending,
it's very niche in your use case,
most people would probably
never have to useRefs.
But when you need it,
you definitely need it.
Which is why this one it's a rarely used
but sometimes needed kind of thing, right?
So I just wanted you to kind of
be aware that it's out there.
All right, any questions about that?
Actually, I have one more
thing to point out about this,
numRef is an object and
it only has one thing available to read.
And write to it I think if
you actually say numRef,
let's put it up here actually,
numRef.somethingElse.
Equals five.
I think it actually will yell at you.
Can I clear this?
In any case,
you shouldn't the only thing you should
ever write to numRef is current.
It might just ignore it.
Yeah, so look at that, despite the fact
that I'm setting num ref something else to
be five, it's ignoring this, right?
And it's because it's a frozen object.
The only thing that's available to read
and write to is something or is current.
Everything else is like cool.
Ignore everything else.
Just allow current to be written to you.
Why did they do that,
and why is it an object?
Why isn't it just like a value is because
they want it to be like an object so
that you can use kind of
the properties of objects that allow
you to track that it's always
the same object, right?
So therefore, if I update it,
it's gonna update across all num refs
because I'm referencing seen the object.
It's in JavaScript trickery is
probably the best way to put it.
Okay, questions about Ref?
>> Thought useRef was used in conjunction
with the ref attribute on a DOM element.
>> It's one of the use cases but
it's not all of the use cases of it.
I know exactly what that
person is talking about.
And that's actually a very valid point
that we hadn't really talked about.
So let's say I needed to, let's see if
I can do this off the top of my head.
Ref equals, I don't know if this I have
not used this API in a very long time.
Let's say you'll have to look
up at the exact syntax of that.
Let's say I needed to refer to
specifically this h1 right here from
my code.
You can actually assign a ref to it.
Maybe it's this, all right,
let's try this const my h1.
Apologies if this doesn't work.
We're pulling out of
the memory banks here.
And I say
ref= =>
myH1.current = el.
And then here I say console.log(myH1).
Wow, I'm impressed with myself
[LAUGH] that was dangerous.
Okay so this is another valid use case for
using refs.
Let's see I need to specifically
refer to this h1 in my code because
react is constantly creating and
destroying things.
And you don't really know
the state of the DOM ever, right?
If I said document.getElementByID.
This h1, right?
That might be it at the moment, but later
it could be created and destroyed and
you have no guarantee that that h1
is going to be the same h1 later.
You just have the guarantee that like
react is going to render it however you
tell it, right?
So let's say I'm integrating with
something like a jQuery plugin where I
need to be referencing
specifically that h1.
And it needs to be the correct
that h1 all the time.
The way you can do that is with this ref
attribute, and this ref hook, and then I
can make sure that it references the same
one here, by giving it this ref thing.
And now you can see here I
have a handle on this h1 here.
So that's that would be a use case
probably a pretty good use case for
refs as well.
Good question, that took me
down memory lane for a second.
I hadn't done that a while.
Yeah, question.
>> I've used a library called popper
in the best interest free tool tips.
And you have to do something very
similar by adding a ref to an element.
But there was something like the change
between a class component and
a functional component where using
the useRef hook gets kind of broken Dean.
I always get confused as to
what changed between the two.
>> Well, I mean, you can't use hooks so
you're gonna be have to,
there is a way to assign a ref to it.
And that one, it's been even
longer since I've done that so
I couldn't do that off the top of my head.
Yeah, sorry, I can remember.
You all are very lucky
that I remember this.
[LAUGH]
>> We can pass ref
using forward ref only, right?
>> Yeah, we'll get into that.
That's a different sort of,
we'll do it here and imperative handle.
Unless you're a library author,
you really don't need to do that though.